feat: adds colorblind definition (#361)
selfdefined/web-app: 11ty/definitions/colorblind.md

---
title: colorblind (race)
slug: colorblind-racism
flag:
  text: 'Medical appropriation'
  level: avoid
defined: true
excerpt: Colorblind, someone with decreased ability to see color or differences in color; colloquially, belief that racism is no longer a problem and that we all have equal opportunities.
speech: adjective
alt_words:
  - ignorant
  - insensitive
  - post-racial
  - race neutral
reading:
  - text: 'What you erase when you say “I don’t see color”'
    href: https://medium.com/@tinu/what-you-erase-when-you-say-i-dont-see-color-73360346afa7
  - text: '7 Reasons Why "Colorblindness" Contributes to Racism Instead of Solves It'
    href: https://everydayfeminism.com/2015/02/colorblindness-adds-to-racism/
---

> colorblind (or color-blind), a condition where someone can only see a limited range of colors or is unable to clearly distinguish different colors. Color blindness can be congenital (from birth) or acquired (due to chronic illness, disease, injury, or old age); colloquially, belief that racism is no longer a problem and that we all have equal opportunities.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
a condition where someone can only see a limited range of colors or is unable to clearly distinguish different colors; condition can be congenital (from birth) or acquired (due to chronic illness, disease, injury, old age, etc); colloquially, belief that "one does not see race," and, that racism was/no longer is a systemic problem; also post-racial.

(Also spelled colour-blind.)
```

Author: I made this change but didn't use the UK spelling of color (colour).

## Appropriate Usage

Referring the medical condition as described above

## Inappropriate Usage

As a literary metaphor for ignorance of racial injustice

## Issues

Connoting ignorance or racist microagression with a medical disorder implies that actions we can control (bad choices) are the same as actions that cannot necessarily be controlled (colorblindness). It reinforces the discriminatory idea that disability is bad.

## Impact

> Using the word colorblind reinforces the idea that blind and/or vision-impaired people are somehow less than and that disability is bad (see [Ableism](/definitions/ableism)).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Using the word colorblind in a medically appropriative way can reinforce the idea that Blind and/or vision-impaired people are somehow less than and that disability is bad (see [Ableism](/definitions/ableism)).
```

Author: I used most of this but used "blind" (lowercase b) because I'm talking about the medical condition not the Blind culture.

By using ableist language, we are perpetuating violence against people who experience disabilities. Using this language perpetuates those systems and language of harm, regardless of our intent.

> 

Reviewer: I think here the impact is also racial: That by using this word, we are perpetuating the falsehood that we live in a post-racial society. This is committing violence against BIPoC and PoC.

Author: I added a new paragraph about racial impact. Comments welcome.

---

> title: colorblind (race)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: colourblind
```

> slug: colorblind-racism

Reviewer: ```suggestion
slug: colourblind
```

flag:
  text: 'Medical appropriation'
  level: avoid
defined: true

> excerpt: Colorblind, someone with decreased ability to see color or differences in color; colloquially, belief that racism is no longer a problem and that we all have equal opportunities.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
excerpt: someone with decreased ability to see colour or differences in colour; colloquially, the concept that someone "does not see race" and therefore, that race and racism no longer exist and no longer impact people's lives; a tool of white supremacy```

speech: adjective
alt_words:
  - ignorant
  - insensitive
  - post-racial

>   - race neutral

Reviewer: We generally use the `alt_words` as a way to designate preferred words. In this case, it's the concept at hand that is really the issue (though it is also an issue that it's medically appropriative.)

I'm a little worried about adding these here sans context as a result.

Author: If someone wants to talk about policy "race neutral" would be the appropriate term (even if it's inaccurate). "Post-racial" is a fantasy-land term which may not have been used ironically. The others apply to a person. Do you see a benefit in including any of these or just remove the section?

Reviewer: I think we should remove the section because it begs more question than it provides answers imho. Generally I would advocate for not using this term in at all, unless referring to the medically appropriate term. How do you feel?

reading:
  - text: 'What you erase when you say “I don’t see color”'
    href: https://medium.com/@tinu/what-you-erase-when-you-say-i-dont-see-color-73360346afa7
  - text: '7 Reasons Why "Colorblindness" Contributes to Racism Instead of Solves It'
    href: https://everydayfeminism.com/2015/02/colorblindness-adds-to-racism/
---

a condition where someone can only see a limited range of colors or is unable to clearly distinguish different colors; condition can be congenital (from birth) or acquired (due to chronic illness, disease, injury, old age, etc); colloquially, belief that "one does not see race," and, that racism is no longer is a systemic problem; also post-racial.

(Also spelled color-blind.)

## Appropriate Usage

Referring the medical condition as described above

## Inappropriate Usage

As a literary metaphor for ignorance of racial injustice

## Issues

Connoting ignorance or racist microagression with a medical disorder implies that actions we can control (bad choices) are the same as actions that cannot necessarily be controlled (colorblindness). It reinforces the discriminatory idea that disability is bad.

## Impact

> Using the word colorblind in a medically appropriative way can reinforce the idea that blind and/or vision-impaired people are somehow less than and that disability is bad (see [Ableism](/definitions/ableism)).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Using the word colorblind in a medically appropriative way can reinforce the idea that Blind and/or vision-impaired people are somehow less than and that disability is bad (see [Ableism](/definitions/ableism)).
```

Author: AFAIK blind is not capitalized like d/Deaf. https://ncdj.org/style-guide/.

Reviewer: Ah, thank you! I think I saw Deaf-Blind be capitalised and followed that. Feel free to ignore here. 👍🏽
